Swedish automaker Volvo Group has started sourcing engines for industrial applications from its equal joint venture with Eicher Motors, VE Commercial Vehicles, and may shift sourcing of engines for non-automotive products to India in the long run.
 
India is already the exclusive manufacturing hub for the 5-8 litre, medium-duty Euro VI engines for automotive applications for Volvo's home base in Europe. Two people aware of the company’s plans said Volvo Group plans to make India the main base for manufacturing engines for industrial applications. 

An emailed query to the company seeking comments on the proposed plans remained unanswered as of press time Tuesday. Vinod Aggarwal, managing director at VE Commercial Vehicles, confirmed the company has started supplying medium duty enginees for industrial applications from its facility in Pithampur, Madhya Pradesh.

“Gradually, we will cater to more applications for non-automotive,” he told ET. “We will get into gen-sets. There are also some other non-automotive departments like construction equipment…,” he said. 

VE Powertrain, one of the five business verticals of VE Commercial Vehicles, already exports 2,000 engines for automotive applications every month to Volvo AB. A separate production line has been set up in Pithampur for the manufacture of Volvo Penta engines. The 5- and 8-liter engines are certified for Bharat Stage III emissions standards. Both ranges can be used for a variety of applications such as construction equipment, agricultural and forestry machinery, crushers and screeners, pumps and cranes.

Besides engines, Volvo AB is also likely to begin overseas sales of light duty UD Trucks later this year, said the sources cited earlier. The trucks, to be built in Pithampur and meant for the Indonesian market, are now under trial and shipments will begin in the second half of 2017, they said. 

Volvo Buses also intends to use the base in Bengaluru to export vehicles to western Europe in future, they said. VE Powertrain currently has capacity to roll out 50,000 engines every year. The capacity can be increased four folds with marginal investment.

US auto major Ford today recalled 39,315 units of Fiesta Classic and the previous-generation Figo models in India to rectify faulty power assisted steering hose.

It said the recall will affect units of the two models made at the companys Chennai plant between 2004 and 2012. "Ford India is voluntarily inspecting 39,315 Ford Fiesta Classic and previous-generation Ford Figo vehicles...for a potential concern related to high pressure power assisted steering hose," it said in a statement.

The company, through its dealers, will replace the high pressure power assisted steering hose on all affected vehicles, it added. Ford remains committed to delivering world-class quality vehicles to its customers and this voluntary safety recall is part of that commitment, it said.

Previously, Ford India had recalled 1,66,021 units of Figo and Fiesta Classic models in September 2013 to rectify faulty rear twist beam and the power steering hose.

Last year, the company had recalled around 42,300 units of the new generation of hatchback Figo and compact sedan Figo Aspire to fix a software glitch that could lead to malfunctioning of airbags during a collision.

In November 2015, the automaker had announced recall of 16,444 units of compact SUV EcoSport in India to fix faulty rear twist beam bolt, a part in vehicle's suspension.