We ordered two time never satisfied first of all they don't know how to treat customers.food quality is worst.rates are too high according to food.there is 300 items available in menue.but they don't serve all these .we feel waist of money.they serve local coldrink and ice cream.
The food was fresh, properly prepared and a great value for the price. Interesting menu, wonderful meal. Service was exactly on time. we highly recommend it.
While the place is small, the courteous staff, tasteful decorations, instrumental music from a good 5.1 system at the right volume, 2 A/Cs running to keep the temperature just right; drinking water chilled at just the right temperature, genuine heinz tomato ketchup, good quality tissues, nice cutlery, courteous patient staff, (our group sat at  table 1, moved to table 2, came back to table 1 ... there are a lot of small touches that show that is is an educated aware and smart professional running the show. Tremendous potential.

Next - after effects of eating - there weren't any - not even a heavy stomach the next morning. Says a lot, doesn't it?

The cooking focuses on the challenging goals of managing both health and status - so I personally won't mind if they raised their prices by another 20%. Everything felt fresh; I could tell that the ingredients were fresh and definitely better than Dumbinoes.

They would have been minting money if the location was someplace other than the underpopulated Greater Noida.

The food itself: Veg Salad - #1  - tasted great; soup and pasta were good too; the garlic bread was pretty decent (though needed to be a little bit more garlicky to live up to its name). There were lot of things which we didn't try but looked very appetizing (delivered to other tables).

The negatives - sure there are quite a few; but for a smart professional some of these should be easy to handle
1) Brownies - All the 4 of us could practically taste the raw egg in the brownies - and they were more like waffles than brownies. And just 1/2 a spoon of ice-cream on a waffle is nothing. This raw egg tasting brownie is not gonna work in India - throw it away
2) Salad - the salad dressing and ingredients were great, but a good salad requires managing the right mix of crunchiness and softness; the lettuce had become a little too soft
3) Pizza - good taste; can improve, but the crust (the last 0.1 cm) was a struggle for my old-ish teeth as well as the pizza cutter. With a softer crust I probably would have gone 4.5 or 5
4) Toppings - as the only non-veg in the group, I ordered a spicy pizza; 8 crouton sized pieces of chicken over the whole pizza just don't cut it at all; increase the price by 50% but don't skimp on the quantity of toppings. And if your menu says spicy, then it SHOULD be a little spicy
5) Soup - lovely and different taste - but a little too 'khatta' - or maybe it's just me
6) Don't take a large group there; I think 6 is the max group size you should go with
7) The staff are going to need strong knees - climbing up and down the stairs